Update faq to include dask FAQ (#16)
NCAR/esds: faq.md

Open an issue [here](https://github.com/NCAR/esds/issues)

## Where do I go for help?

Try one of the following resources.
1. Xarray's [How Do I do X?](https://xarray.pydata.org/en/stable/howdoi.html) page
1. [Xarray Github Discussions](https://github.com/pydata/xarray/discussions)
1. [Pangeo Discourse Forum](https://discourse.pangeo.org)
1. NCAR Zulip under #python-questions, #python-dev, or #dask.

Avoid personal emails and prefer a public forum.

## Someone must have written the function I want. Where do I look?

See the xarray [ecosystem](https://xarray.pydata.org/en/latest/ecosystem.html) page. Also see the [xarray-contrib](https://github.com/xarray-contrib/) and [pangeo-data](https://github.com/pangeo-data) organizations. Some NCAR relevant projects include:
1. GeoCAT-comp
1. GeoCAT-viz
1. cf_xarray
1. climpred
1. eofs
1. MetPy
1. rechunker
1. xclim
1. xesmf
1. xgcm
1. pop-tools
1. xskillscore

## Where can I find Xarray tutorials?

See [videos](https://xarray.pydata.org/en/latest/tutorials-and-videos.html) and [notebooks](https://xarray-contrib.github.io/xarray-tutorial/).

=======
## How do I debug my code when using dask?
>>>>>>> main

> 

Reviewer: Bad merge?

# Frequently Asked Questions
This contains relevant questions and answers from common workflow issues and questions posted on Zulip.

***This page is meant to be a list of FAQ regarding climate datasets, movivated by a variety of employees across UCAR/NCAR***

## How do I optimize reading multiple files using Xarray and Dask?

### I receive errors when trying to read in my dataset... are there certain arguements

A good first place to start when reading in multiple files is [Xarray's multi-file documentation](https://xarray.pydata.org/en/stable/io.html#reading-multi-file-datasets).

For example, if you are trying to read in multiple files where you are interested in concatenating over the time dimension, here is an example of the `xr.open_dataset` line would look like:

```python
ds = xr.open_mfdataset(
        files,
        # Name of the dimension to concatenate along.
        concat_dim="time",

        # Attempt to auto-magically combine the given datasets into one by using dimension coordinates.
        combine="by_coords",

        # Specify chunks for dask - explained later
        chunks={"lev": 1, "time": 500},

>         # Only data variables in which the dimension already appears are included.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        # Only data variables in which the concat_dim already appears are concatenated.
```

        data_vars="minimal",

>         # Only coordinates in which the dimension already appears are included.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        # Only non-dim coordinate variables in which concat_dim already appears are concatenated.
```

        coords="minimal",

>         # Skip comparing and pick variable from first dataset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        # Skip comparing and pick variable from first dataset when concat_dim is not a dimension of a variable
```

        compat="override",
        parallel=True,
    )
```

> ### My file is taking forever to read in... what can I do to improve this?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### My file is taking forever to read in... what can I do to improve this?

1. Have you looked at [Xarray's multi-file documentation](https://xarray.pydata.org/en/stable/io.html#reading-multi-file-datasets)? Usually `data_vars="minimal", coords="minimal", compat="override"` works for model datasets that are consistent across the files you are reading in.
```

1. Try subsetting for ***just*** the variable(s) you need for example, if you are reading in a dataset with ~25 variables, and you only need `temperature`, just read in temperature. You can specificy which variables to read in by using the following syntax, following the example of the temperature variable.

```python
ds = xr.open_dataset(file, data_vars=['temperature'])
```

1. Your chunk size, using Dask, is not optimized. When reading a file in using Xarray with Dask, a "general rule of thumb" is to keep your chunk size down to around 100 mb.

For example, let's say you trying to read in multiple files, each with ~600 time steps. This is case where each file is very large (several 10s of GB) and using Dask to help with data processing is *essential*.

You can check the size of each chunk by subsetting a single DataArray (ex. `ds['temperature']`)

> If you have very large chunks, try modifying the number of chunks you specify within  `xr.open_mfdataset(files, ..., chunks={'lev':1, "time": 500})` where lev and time are vertical and time dimensions respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have very large chunks, try modifying the number of chunks you specify within  `xr.open_mfdataset(files, ..., chunks={'lev':1, "time": 500})` where `lev` and `time` are dimension names.
```

Check to see how large each chunk is after modifying the chunk size, and modify as necessary.

1. You do not have enough dask workers

If you have a few large files, having the number of workers equal to to the number of input files read in using `xr.open_mfdataset` would be a good practice

> If you have a large number of smaller files, you may not run into this issue, and it is suggest you look at the other potential solutions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a large number of smaller files, you may not run into this issue, and it is suggest you look at the other potential solutions. If you are reading a large number of netCDF files, you should check the number of threads vs number of processes in your cluster. File reading is parallelized across processes, not threads so this is a potential bottleneck.
```
